.TH getmail "1" "July 2004" "getmail 4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getmail \- retrieve messages from one or more POP3, IMAP4, or SDPS mailboxes and deliver to a maildir, mboxrd-format mbox file, or external MDA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getmail
[\fIOPTION\fR] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
getmail can retrieve messages from POP3, IMAP4, and SDPS mailboxes.  SSL-wrapped 
POP3 and IMAP are also supported.  Single-user and domain (multi\-drop) 
mailboxes are supported.
.PP
getmail has built-in support for delivering to maildirs, mboxrd-format mbox
files, and external MDAs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a short usage summary and exit
.TP
\fB\-g\fIDIR\fR, \fB\-\-getmaildir\fR=\fIDIR\fR
look in DIR for config/data files
.TP
\fB\-r\fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-rcfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR
load configuration from FILE (may be given multiple
times)
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fR
dump configuration and exit (debugging)
.TP
\fB\-\-trace\fR
print extended debugging information
.PP
The following options override any in the configuration file(s).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
print informational messages
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
do not print informational messages
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete\fR
delete messages from server after retrieving
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-delete\fR
do not delete messages from server after retrieving
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
retrieve all messages
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-new\fR
retrieve only unread messages
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Charles Cazabon.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <getmail-bugs@discworld.dyndns.org>.
.PP
\fBIMPORTANT:\fR
include the output of
.B getmail [options] --dump\fR
with any bug report.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004 Charles Cazabon
.br
This is free software; see the file COPYING for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B getmail
is maintained in HTML and plaintext formats.  See the included files for
details.
