.TH getmail "1" "2020" "getmail 6" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getmail \- retrieve messages from one or more POP3, IMAP4, or SDPS mailboxes and deliver to a maildir, mboxrd-format mbox file, or external MDA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getmail
[\fIOPTION\fR] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
getmail can retrieve messages from POP3, IMAP4, and SDPS mailboxes.  SSL-wrapped
POP3 and IMAP are also supported.  Single-user and domain (multi\-drop)
mailboxes are supported.
.PP
getmail has built-in support for delivering to maildirs, mboxrd-format mbox
files, and external MDAs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a short usage summary and exit
.TP
\fB\-g\fIDIR\fR, \fB\-\-getmaildir\fR=\fIDIR\fR
look in DIR for config/data files
.TP
\fB\-r\fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-rcfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR
load configuration from FILE (may be given multiple
times)
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fR
dump configuration and exit (debugging)
.TP
\fB\-\-trace\fR
print extended trace information (extremely verbose)
.TP
\fB\-i\fIFOLDER\fR, \fB\-\-idle\fR=\fIFOLDER\fR
maintain connection and listen for new messages in \fR\fIFOLDER\fI\fR.
This flag will only work if a single rc file is given, and will only work on
IMAP connections where the server supports IMAP4 IDLE (RFC 2177).
.PP
The following options override any in the configuration file(s).
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
operate more verbosely (can be given multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
do not print informational messages
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete\fR
delete messages from server after retrieving
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-dont\-delete\fR
do not delete messages from server after retrieving
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
retrieve all messages
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-new\fR
retrieve only unread messages
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Charles Cazabon and others.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/getmail6/getmail6/issues>
.PP
\fBIMPORTANT:\fR
include the output of
.B getmail [options] --dump\fR
with any bug report.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998-2020 Charles Cazabon and others.
.br
This is free software; see the file COPYING for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B getmail
is maintained in HTML and plaintext formats.  See the included files for
details.
