.TH getmail_fetch "1" "2020" "getmail 6" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getmail_fetch \- retrieve messages from one or more POP3 or POP3-over-SSL mailboxes and deliver to a maildir, mboxrd-format mbox file, or external MDA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getmail_fetch
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fISERVER\fR \fIUSERNAME\fR \fIPASSWORD\fR \fIDESTINATION\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
getmail_fetch retrieves messages from POP3 or POP3-over-SSL mailboxes and delivers
to a maildir, mboxrd, or external MDA.  This command is intended primarily for scripting,
and as such does not require a client-side configuration file, and does not record any
state.
.PP
The \fIDESTINATION\fR argument is interpreted as follows:
.PP
If it begins with a dot or a slash and ends with a slash, it is assumed to be a path to a maildir.
.PP
If it begins with a dot or a slash and does not end with a slash, it is assumed to be a path to an mboxrd file.
.PP
If it begins with a pipe, it is assumed to be a path to an external
MDA command.  Note that arguments can be included in this string by separating
them by whitespace; untrusted data \fBmust not\fR be used in constructing this string.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a short usage summary and exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
output information messages while running
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
output only on error
.TP
\fB\-m\fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-message\fR=\fIFILE\fR
read well-formatted RFC822 message from FILE and deliver prior to connecting
to POP server
.TP
\fB\-p\fIPORT\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR=\fIPORT\fR
use port PORT instead of default (POP3: 110, POP3-over-SSL: 995)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delete\fR
delete messages from server after delivery
.TP
\fB\-t\fITIMEOUT\fR, \fB\-\-timeout\fR=\fITIMEOUT\fR
use timeout of TIMEOUT seconds instead of default 180
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-apop\fR
use APOP authentication
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-ssl\fR
use POP3-over-SSL
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Charles Cazabon and others.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/getmail6/getmail6/issues>
.PP
\fBIMPORTANT:\fR
include the output of
.B getmail [options] --dump\fR
with any bug report.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998-2020 Charles Cazabon and others.
.br
This is free software; see the file COPYING for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B getmail
is maintained in HTML and plaintext formats.  See the included files for
details.
