.TH getmails "1" "May 2021" "getmail6" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
getmails \- wrapper for getmail to access multiple mailboxes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getmails
[\fB-p\fR] 
[\fIOPTION\fR] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.PP
.B getmails
is a wrapper script for
.B getmail 
to retrieve messages with multiple independent configuration files
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/*
or for backward compatibility
.I ~/.getmail/config/*
instead of a single
.I ~/.getmailrc
file.

The configuration file name can be any arbitrary names.  It's a good idea to use
the corresponding email address as its name since it is the most intuitive
choice.  For example 
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/foo@example.org .

To disable operation for an email account temporary, rename its configuration
file to the hidden file such as
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/.foo@example.org .
Then, it is ignored as configuration file.

For the robust operation, the editor generated files such as
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/foo~
,
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/#foo#
,
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/foo.swp
, and
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/foo.bak
are also ignored as configuration file.

When there are multiple email configuration files, 
.B getmails
retrieves mails sequentially.  But adding an optional option
.B -p
before other options makes
.B getmails
invoke
.B getmail
with each configuration file in parallel to retrieve mails.

The option provided as \fIOPTION\fR is passed to \fBgetmail\fR as is.  The use
of the \fB-r\fR option is not a good idea.

The existence of 
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/getmail/stop 
can prevent this wrapper script to execute \fBgetmail\fR.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/getmail6/getmail6/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2011-2017 Osamu Aoki
.br
Copyright 2021 Roland Puntaier
.br
This is free software; see the file COPYING for copying conditions.
.br
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
